Here's a preview of what we'll learn next.
You may have heard often how overfitting in
machine learning is a problem that we wish to avoid.
Over fitting with financial data is also a significant issue we have to deal
with If we hope for our models to perform
well and out-of-sample testing and in real trading.
Let's look at how financial time series data,
in particular, may need special handling to address overfitting.
We often want to train our model on a multi-day forward return, say, weekly returns.
We do this because we expect the training and turnover to be lower than say,
a model trained on a single day for a return.
We calculate weekly returned data from the most recent Monday and the prior Monday.
Then, for the next return,
we calculate the weekly return from the most recent Tuesday to the prior Tuesday.
We repeat this for Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
We could use each of these weekly returns,
quantized, as our targets in a machine learning model.
But recall that supervised learning models work better with independent observations.
Let's think about the weekly returns data that are calculated every day.
Do you notice something?
The time periods of these weekly returns overlap.
This is an issue called overlapping samples,
and it leads to models that overfit on
the training data and therefore perform worse on the validation and test data.
I'll cover ways to handle this.
You won't find this in any textbooks,
and I'm really excited to share my insights with you.